DF Intoxicating Substances Policy

We are an inclusive young person's movement and therefore will sometimes have problems with intoxicating substances.

As an organisation our primary goal is to make sure people are safe. Safeguarding incidents can arise from both legal and illegal substances. It is important to emphasize that the legality of a substance has little bearing on how safe it is. However, everyone must be aware that illegal substance use remains illegal at DF events. We are volunteers, not police, and we will not have to search your bags, rooms, tents or bushes.

A compulsory MEST-UP workshop at the beginning of every event shall provide education about the risks of using both legal and illegal substances. Never be afraid to come to a Coordinator, First-Aider or MEST-UP rep if if you are worried about the safety or wellbeing of yourself or others. There will always be at least five designated responsible sober people (including 2 MEST-UP, 2 First Aid, 1 coordinator and 1 committee member), and they will be made known to everyone. Keep in mind that these people are volunteers. Look out for each other and look after your friends if they overdo it.

We aim to create an inclusive and safe atmosphere at all of our events, and that includes people not feeling peer pressure. Be aware that behaviour can make other people feel pressured, even unintentionally. What some people feel comfortable doing may make others feel uneasy. Be mindful of the impact your actions have on others and the atmosphere you are creating. If you feel uncomfortable or peer pressured in any way, please know that you can talk to a designated person, or write a note for the comments box, and any action taken will be done so anonymously. Any complaints received will be dealt with appropriately. Coercion is always unacceptable and will not be tolerated.

Anyone who is found to be involved in drug dealing on a DF event will be asked to leave immediately. Further action may be taken including contacting external bodies if deemed necessary. If a complaint is made about drug dealing then the Woodcraft Folk's complaints procedure will be brought into effect.

If a complaint is made, or your actions are making people uncomfortable or pressured, we will intervene and the matter will be investigated by the coordinating team and DF Committee. The safeguarding procedure will be followed and further action may be taken, including expulsion from the event.

Smoking is prohibited in any buildings, marquees or central areas. The smoking area is over there [points over there]. We heavily discourage smoking in personal tents due to the high fire risk.
